I talked with Ingrid and Milla about the assignment. I was very busy and stressed this past week, so I forgot to find time to attend office hours -- which is my fault, and I'm sorry. I definitely intend to attend office hours either tomorrow (Friday) or Monday, which doesn't make up for it, but is as close as I can get.

I have some experience with C# from several Unity projects, and my biggest takeaway is that Java is *very* similar to C#, especially compared to Python. Java is a *much* stricter language than Python in almost every aspect, and I would say it's even a bit stricter than C#. Most of the little syntax changes I struggled to get used to when jumping from Python to C# are also present in Java: semicolons, curly brackets, explicitly defined types, "public void" at the start of all your methods, those pesky parenthesis around if-conditions that I seem to forget literally every time I write an if statement, etc. Of course, there are plenty of differences, ranging from fundamental (everything must be contained within a class) to minor ("System.out.println(x)" instead of "Debug.log(x)"), but overall I've been relying a lot on my knowledge of C# in switching to Java.

Looking at both Python and Java, it's obvious that programming languages have an extremely wide range of specificity -- in Python, it feels like at LEAST half of what's happening is all done implicitly, without you lifting a finger. However, Java also gives you a lot more control by letting you micromanage so much of what it's doing... the downside is just that you *have* to manage it in the first place, even if you don't need to do anything special with it.

While working on this assignment, I was thinking a lot in terms of what I know how to do in Python -- I looked up a lot of Java equivalents to concepts I'm familiar with in Python (random number generation, splitting a string, && and ! operators, etc.). I also learned the very basics of regex expressions! I mainly used the websites w3schools.com and geeksforgeeks.org, both of which come up at the top of the search results for basically any programming question and are fantastic at explaining methods, data types, etc. in a way that feels practical. I already use both websites frequently when coding in Python on my own time.

My program largely seems to work, except for the fact that, for some reason, System.out.println() seems to stop working *entirely* at the end of chat()?! Trying to run printTranscript() after it simply doesn't output anything, even though printTranscript() runs perfectly fine if run before chat() (see the commented-out code in main()). I tried inserting standalone System.out.println() lines in various different places, and even though the goodbye message prints just fine at line 51, inserting a new print statement IMMEDIATELY above it did absolutely nothing somehow! I'm starting to think that it's some kind of bug with VSCode itself, even though it persisted through a full restart of the program. I'm definitely going to bring this up at office hours!